This is one of those things
you didn't know you needed,
but you'll end up using it every day.
Copy and paste in the terminal. Now,
I know it sounds stupid,
but seriously, it's so cool.
So in this five minute Friday,
I'm going to show you how to
copy and paste in your terminal.
Now you're probably thinking,
Chuck, we already have this solved.
We can already copy something and
paste it right into our terminal,
and we can also copy from our
terminal control shift C and I got it.
So what am I talking about? Maybe
I want to do this cat a large file.
This is a transcript of one of my YouTube
videos and pipe that sucker right into
my clipboard just like that and paste it
anywhere I want. That's a lot of stuff.
Or maybe I want to copy everything
from this article right here,
the entire page, which if I normally
pasted that into my terminal, it would be,
yeah, based. Anyway, chaos. Stop it. Stop.
I can just do this and pipe
that into any command I want,
like maybe fabric to summarize the
article for me, which by the way,
fabric is amazing. Go watch my
video on that right now. Now,
this doesn't happen by default,
these commands, PB copy and PB paste,
they don't exist, at least
not on Linux or Windows.
They do exist on Mac and they're amazing.
So if you're a Mac user tutorial
over what I just showed you,
you can do it right now. You're
welcome. Walk away, get some coffee.
I'll see you later. But if you're a
Linux user or a Windows user using WSL,
I found a way to make this magic happen.
Now because this is a five minute
Friday, I got to move fast. Oh,
and by the way, I'm doing five
minute Fridays. If you like these.
Let me know if you have any suggestions
for content. Comment below. Also,
have you hacked the YouTube
algorithm today? Have you not?
Let's make sure you do hit that
like button subscribe. Comment.
You got to hack YouTube today, ethically,
of course. Anyways, enough With that,
we're going to launch our
terminal. If you're on Linux,
just launch the terminal. If you're
on Windows, launch your WSL terminal.
The first thing we'll do is install
something called Excel. No, not Excel.
Excel. It's a command line program used
to access and manipulate the clipboard.
So we'll install that
with a PT. Install, Excel,
the little pseudo action at the
beginning. And when that's done,
you're pretty much done. And we can
throw stuff on the clipboard like this.
Let's do a little, you name dash R,
and we'll pipe that out to this
command Excel dash input dash
dash clipboard. Let's see if
it worked. Bam, there it is.
Or I can copy something and I can
paste it in with Excel dash output,
dash clipboard. I can save it
to a file. Let's say file txt
and there it all is, but we don't
want to type that in every time.
These commands are long, so we'll make
an alias or a nickname for this command.
To do that, we'll jump
into our bash RC file,
nano tilda slash bash rc.
And right up here at the top, you can
put this really anywhere you want.
We can define our aliases. We'll
type in alias, and we'll say PB copy.
That will be our command. And we'll
say equals this command opening.
Single quote, we'll say Excel, dash
dash input dash dash clipboard.
We'll do the same thing for PB paste.
Alias pb paste equals Excel
output dash clipboard, and that's
pretty much it. We'll hit control x,
Y and enter to save.
We'll type in source tilda slash RC to
refresh our terminal and start using
that file. Now, let's try it out.
We'll echo, Hey, does this work?
And we'll pipe that into PB copy
and let's see if it did. Awesome.
It totally did. Let's put it
right back in PB paste. Boom.
There it is. Now you can make these
commands, whatever you want it to be.
You can make it simply copy and paste.
I did this because I have a Mac and
I don't want to get confused. Now,
you might be done, but what if you
want to log into a remote server,
another Linux server and still have
this clipboard action? You can do that.
Just a few simple steps. Now,
keep in mind this scenario only works
for Linux servers logging into another
Linux server. You can
also do this with WSL,
which is Linux logging
into a Linux server.
What doesn't work is Windows
logging into a Linux server.
You can try to make it
work. It's not a good time,
just don't even think about it.
And we only have to do two
things to make this work.
And it's all going to be
on the remote server. One,
we have to make sure that Excel
XL is installed on your remote
server. Two,
you got to make sure X 11 forwarding
is enabled on that remote server,
which is a really cool feature that
allows you to run a program on one server,
but display the graphics on another.
We're going to use that to do
some clipboard magic. Thankfully,
it's kind of enabled by default,
but we'll check to make sure.
So first I'm going to get
logged into my remote server.
I'll jump into my AI server. Terry.
First thing we'll do is make
sure we have X Excel installed.
Pseudo A PTI install Excel. I
already do. Step one is done.
Now let's check step two. Let's make
sure X 11 forwarding is enabled.
Let's quickly cat this file.
We'll CAT E-T-C-S-S-H-S-S-H-D
underscore config,
and we'll GRE for X 11 just like
this. And if you're new to Grip,
all that did is simply search the file
and output only lines with X 11 in it.
And we can see right here
we have X 11 forwarding yes,
and it's not commented out.
Notice this one down here,
X 11 forwarding no is commented
out. So it's not an active config.
Now if you don't see the yes,
you'll need to jump into that
file with nano and edit that.
So we might say nano Etsy, SSH,
SSH D config. Make sure
this line of config exists.
Control X, Y enter to save, and then
we'll do a pseudo system, CT L, restart,
SS H, and that may log you
out. And you know what? I lied.
There is a third thing
we might want to do,
and that's set up our aliases because
our aliases exist on our host system
either in WSL or Linux, but they
don't exist on the new system.
We'll have to add those there as well.
So same story, nano, Tilda, Matilda,
anyone do that in their head
when they say that? Anyways,
bash RC and I already have mine here. But
go ahead and add yours just like this.
Once you have all that config there,
we're going to actually disconnect
from the server. So just type in exit.
We're back in our host system,
and this time we're going to connect
back to it with a special switch.
So we'll do s, s, H, and here's the
difference. We'll do dash capital X,
which will force us to use
X 11 forwarding, and then
business as usual network,
Chuck, or whatever your
username is at your server.
So now I can copy and paste on a
remote server with no problems.
Let's try a copy real quick. Yep, like.
A five minute Friday. Was that five
minutes? It probably wasn't. I'm sorry,
but I hope this was helpful. I
seriously use this every single day,
especially when I'm playing with fabric.
And I would love to hear if you install
this or if you have any tips or tricks
for me, or if you have an amazing tip,
I would love to share that. And also,
if you want to support what I do and
learn some cool stuff along the way,
check out network. Chuck Academy, link
below. That's my baby, my project.
I'm pouring all of my energy into it,
and it's a place where we can hang out.
So I hope to see you there. That's
all I got. I'll get you next time.